Hello friends
In this video let us learn how to write
an algorithm
In the previous video we have discussed about algorithms we
learn that an algorithm is a finite set of steps
that must be followed to solve any problem
And in this video let us learn how to write
an algorithm
So the algorithm is generally developed before the actual coding
is done
We can drive the algorithm step by step using simple
English
For example If we want to swap two numbers we
can write it in simple English like this
First start read the first number as a and read
the second number as b then assign temp equal to
a and a equal to b and finally b equal
to temp
And that is the end of the algorithm
By following these steps we can swap two numbers
So this is in simple English
Now there is one more method in which we can
write an algorithm that is using Pseudocode
The pseudo code is an informal programme description that does
not contain code syntax
Pseudocode need not contain the data type or returned
type information
It is purely intended for human reading rather than machine
reading
And because of that we can also write using any
understandable simple other than the equal to simple
So saying this pseudocode
We can understand that first we have to assign a
to temp then b to a and finally temp to
b so by this method
Also we can understand what we have to do to
achieve our goal which is to swap two numbers and
that is what an algorithm is
So there are no strict rules about writing and algorithm
The main purpose of writing and algorithm is to write
a human understandable version of code which can be used
as a reference for two members or a group of
team members to analyse and debug the programme
So that's all about writing an Algorithm and
in the coming videos we will discuss more on algorithms